A Little Box Of Oblivion

Synopsis
This absurd one act play features five characters : a 'cool guy', a woman in a hurry, a neurotic, a 'doom merchant' and an amateur sleuth. They have no need of forenames or surnames and are referred to in the script simply by their character trait (except for Dick, the amateur sleuth).
It is a lovely spring day in an urban conurbation. Cool Guy is settling on a park bench to read the paper when Woman rushes on with a box. Before Cool Guy can say no, the box has been left on the bench with instructions that the box cannot be moved, knocked, tilted or opened.
A series of motley characters then begin to arrive, each with a theory about the contents of the box. Neurotic, spurred on by a Government leaflet recently received, is convinced it contains a bomb. Neurotic contacts the police, but they are busy dealing with a cat up a tree! Doom Merchant is equally convinced (because of the same leaflet) that it contains anthrax. They phone the police again, but they are now dealing with a threatened suicide jumper in the local apartment block. So they take it on themselves to warn the public, much to Cool Guy's amazement and amusement. Thank goodness for Dick, the amateur sleuth, who on arrival uses fact and logic to disprove all their theories. The problem is that Dick thinks that the box contains a severed human head from a Mafia killing! Cool Guy has had enough and waves the box above his head to prove that it is "... just a cardboard box ...", only to be caught by Woman who lambasts Cool Guy for being untrustworthy. Still, everything's all right now. Isn't it?

Scene
A park bench in a run down inner city park. Early spring.

Characters
All the following characters are designated in the script according to their particular traits. Thus, with the exception of Woman, male or female actors can play any part. All characters will be referred to as he/she. It may be necessary to slightly alter the mild expletives used occasionally, to suit the usage by a man or a woman in a particular role.

Cool Guy („Cool‟) - level headed and objective with a cynical wit, dressed smart-casual
Woman - 'flappy' in character. Must have green hair!
Neurotic („Neuro‟) - compulsive obsessive, house is probably immaculately tidy.
Doom Merchant („Doom‟) - dour, humourless. (If young, dress as a 'Goth'. If older, dress as an 'Anorak')
Amateur Sleuth („Dick‟) - has been reading too many cheap detective novels, an English Bogart

Lights up to reveal Cool seated on the usable park bench reading a newspaper. Woman rushes on from SL holding a cardboard box. The box is about 30cms/12” square and is tied with string. Woman is obviously agitated. Cool only gives her a passing glance then goes back to the newspaper. Eventually Woman puts the box down very carefully at the other end of the bench to Cool, who watches the operation with mild curiosity. The bench should only be big enough to house the box and Cool with just enough room for one other person to squeeze in without unduly dislodging the box. Woman looks at her watch.

Woman (To Cool) Would you mind looking after my box?
Cool I beg your pardon?
Woman My box. Just watch it for me.
Cool Er … hang on!
Woman Please, I normally wouldn‟t ask but it‟s an emergency. Please don‟t open it. And … and
don‟t give it a sudden knock … Don‟t tilt it or lift it up … Just don‟t move it. I‟ll be
back as soon as I can.
Woman runs off SR.
Cool Whoa! What‟s in it? Oi! I never said that I … It‟s nothing to do with me. Why can‟t I
move it? Oh great! No, nothing to do with me. I never said I‟d be responsible for it.
(Enter Neuro from SL carrying two heavy supermarket carrier bags. Obviously weary, Neuro
stops by the bench, sees the box, looks left and right, then back to the box and bends down to
move it). No!
Neuro (Jumps back) What on earth?
Cool Don‟t move the box.
Neuro You gave me a fright!
Cool Sorry. Just don‟t move the box.
Neuro Is it yours?
Cool No.
Neuro Oh well then. (Bends down to pick it up).
Cool No! You mustn‟t move it.
Neuro It‟s not yours.
Cool I … sort of said I‟d … mind it.
Neuro But I want to sit down.
Cool There‟s another bench up there. (Points to the broken bench or off stage to SL).
Neuro It was smashed up by vandals last week.
Cool What about that one over there. (Points to the burnt bench or off stage to SR).
Neuro Someone‟s tried to set it alight.
Cool You can still sit on it.
Neuro I‟ll get soot on my clothes. Look, this is ridiculous. I want to sit here. (Bends again and
goes to pick the box up).
Cool No! You can‟t move it.
Neuro Why? What‟s in it?
Cool I don‟t know.
Neuro What do you mean you don‟t know?
Cool I don‟t know what is in the box but the woman who left it said it can‟t be moved,
opened, tilted or knocked.
Neuro (Horror stricken) Good God! And you just let her walk off?
Cool Yes.
Neuro Tch, tch, tch!
Cool What else could I do?
Neuro What do you think is in it?
Cool How should I know?
2
Neuro And didn‟t you even think of asking?
Cool I tried but she sort of rushed off.
Neuro Rushed off? That‟s not a good sign.
Cool Sign?
Neuro Rushing off. Not good.
Cool Well she probably … had to be somewhere … I don‟t know.
Neuro Or … she wanted to get as far from the blast as possible.
Cool (Can’t have heard right) What did you say?
Neuro The blast! … Get away from it.
Cool What … blast?
Neuro When it goes off!
Cool When what goes off?
Neuro The bomb!
Cool A bomb!
Neuro I can see that it hasn‟t even entered your mind.
Cool Let me get this right. Are you saying that there‟s a bomb in that box? (Looks at Neuro
expecting a smile. Neuro, however, is deadly serious). Oh for… ! A bomb?
Neuro What else could it be?
Cool (Laughs) Oh, God, a thousand things.
Neuro Such as?
Cool I don‟t know … er … a glass bowl. (Goes back to newspaper).
Neuro That‟s one.
Cool Sorry? (Looks up from newspaper).
Neuro You said a thousand things. A glass bowl, that‟s one: Just another nine hundred and
ninety nine things to go.
Cool You‟re being ridiculous.
Neuro Tell me. Does this list of yours include a bomb?
Cool Well …
Neuro Well?
Cool Well … I suppose it has to do … but I mean …a bomb?
Neuro Why not?
Cool You don‟t get bombs round here do you.
Neuro You wouldn‟t have said that sixty years ago.
Cool What do you mean?
Neuro Bombs round here.
Cool What, the Second World War?
Neuro They say several bombs dropped round here. My mum‟s neighbour, Mrs Wilkins was
killed while she was sat on the privy.
Cool Well yes, but that was the Second World War.
Neuro And now we‟re fighting in the Third World War.
Cool (Appearing to be very concerned) Third World War?
Neuro (Pleased to have got the message across) Yes … Third World War.
Cool Wow! I missed that one! Well, that‟s what you get for buying a crap newspaper.
(Examining the newspaper). You‟d have thought they‟d have at least given it a mention.
Who is it this time? Not the Germans again?!
Neuro (Annoyed at being ridiculed) It‟s the international war on terrorism … actually!
Cool (Nonchalantly) Oh. (Then a thought). Are you saying that the woman who left this box is
a terrorist?
Neuro She might be.
Cool Jesus!
Neuro We‟ve all been told to be vigilant.
Cool She was no more a terrorist than my Aunt Fanny.
Neuro How do you know?
Cool Well … she …
Neuro Didn‟t look like one?
Cool Yeah!
Neuro So, what does a terrorist look like then?
Cool Come again?
Neuro Describe a terrorist to me.
Cool Now look here …
Neuro Oh silly me, of course. They all wear a balaclava with slitty eyes and a Tee shirt with
“I‟m a Terrorist” written on the back.
Cool There‟s no need to be sarcastic.
Neuro I‟d rather be sarcastic than dead. Anyone could be a terrorist.
Cool Anyone? Absolutely anyone could be a terrorist?
Neuro Yes!
Cool Is there a pack you can send off for then? The ACME terrorist starter pack? What do
you get? A stick of dynamite, a balaclava with slitty eyes and detailed plans of the
American Embassy?
Neuro You might well laugh. It could be anyone. Your next-door neighbour.
Cool (Appalled at the idea) Who …Frank!? He‟s ninety-two and riddled with arthritis!
Neuro I was speaking figuratively.
Cool Hang on! No! I know what a terrorist looks like. She‟s got a warty face, a bent back, a
black cape and a tall pointy black hat and carries a broomstick!
Neuro That‟s a witch!
Cool No! It‟s just an old woman who‟s wearing a black cape and a tall pointy hat who‟s just
bought a broomstick and is carrying it home!
Neuro Ha ha … very clever!
Cool Look. Move … The … Damn … Box! Move the box and sit down.
Neuro But you said I can‟t move it.
Cool No … I … didn‟t, the woman who left it did. She said that it couldn‟t be opened …
Neuro … tilted etc … Yes, I know. So if I do move the box … bang!
Cool Oh … whatever!
Neuro (Pause) I don‟t believe it. You‟re really not bothered are you? There could be anything
in that box.
Cool Don‟t start all that again. (Neuro slowly approaches the box bends and puts an ear to it).
Now what are you doing?
Neuro Sssh! I‟m listening.
Cool What for?
Neuro Ticking.
Cool Ticking?
Neuro Yes, ticking.
Cool So … all bombs tick do they?
Neuro Some do.
Cool Oh right. And if it is ticking? It could be a clock. Don‟t you think?
Neuro Or a bomb!
