Roy / Regina - Roy Cohn

A famous New York lawyer and powerbroker, Roy Cohn was a real-life figure whom Kushner adapted for his play. Roy is the play's most vicious and disturbing character, a closeted homosexual who disavows other gays and cares only about amassing clout. His lack of ethics led him to illegally intervene in the espionage trial of Ethel Rosenberg, which resulted in her execution. Roy represents the opposite of community, the selfishness and loneliness all too endemic to American life. However, his malevolence goes beyond mere isolation to actual hatred and evil. He is forgiven (though not exonerated) in the play's moral climax, after his death (from AIDS) unwittingly reconnects him to the gay community from which he always distanced himself.

Henry/Harriet - Henry

Roy's doctor, whom Roy threatens with destruction lest he refer to him as a homosexual. Henry recognizes the folly of Roy's self-delusion but ultimately gives in to it, agreeing to set down his official condition as liver cancer.

Henry: Nobody knows what causes it. And nobody knows how to cure it. The best theory is that we blame a retrovirus, the human immunodeficiency virus. It's presence is made known to us by the useless antibodies which appear in reaction to its entrance into the bloodstream through a cut, or an orifice. The antibiotics are powerless to protect the body against it. Why, we don't know. The body's immune system ceases to function. Sometimes the body even attacks itself. At any rate it's left open to a whole horror house of infections from microbes which it usually defends against. 
Like Kaposi's sarcomas. These lesions. Or your throat problem. Or the glands. We think it may also be able to slip past the blood-brain barrier into the brain. Which of course is very bad news. And it's fatal in we don't know what percentage of people with suppressed immune responses.

(Pause)

Roy: This is very interesting, Mr.Wizard, but why the fuck are you telling me this?

(Pause)

Henry: Well, I have just removed one of three lesions which biopsy results will probably tell us is a Kaposi's sarcoma lesion. And you have a pronounced swelling of glands in your neck, groin, and armpit, lymphadenopathy is the another sign. And you have oral candidiasis and maybe a little more fungus under the fingernails of two digits on your right hand. So that's why ...

Roy: This disease 

Henry: Syndrome

Roy: Whatever. It afflicts mostly homosexuals and drug addicts.

Henry: Mostly. Hemophiliacs are also at risk.