Jail BIrds


Synopsis
The action of the play takes place in the communal area of a prison. The female inmates are all of senior age and have all committed crimes to be imprisoned and cared for at the expense of the taxpayer, rather than paying high residential home fees. 
Now imprisoned, they’re still law breaking… by scams, forgeries and producing illegal substances in the prison grounds. The prison staff are kept on their toes in providing the luxury style of living the inmates all wish to receive. Although this play is a comedy, the moves and action are suitable for a more senior cast. This play is rather tongue￾in-cheek and is a send-up of the prison system, all of which gives a great selection of characters and rib-tickling 
amusement to the audience. 




Characters (3m, 7f, 1m/f)


The Prisoners
• Emma - an artist (f).
• Jane - money launderer, computer addict (f).
• Mary – walks slowly with a frame, never speaks, possibly disabled (f). 
• Lewis - a burglar (m).
• Sandra - scientist, illegal distiller (f).
• Sonia - horticulturist (f). 
• Jenny - ran an illegal brothel (f).
• Angela - wheelchair bound, seamstress (f).
The Staff
• Officer Parker – an officer (m).
• Governor – the prison Governor (m).
• Nurse Dawson – the prison Nurse (m/f).


The prisoners should all be portrayed as retired people, which may need some actors to age themselves up. The 
staff can be of any suitable working age.




Emma (Looking across to Jane). Why do you spend so much time on that thing?
Jane It’s marvellous and so informative. You name it and it’s here, Emma.
Emma At your time of life you shouldn’t need to fill your head with more useless rubbish.
Jane Not all of it’s rubbish.
Emma (Turning back to the painting). Everything is rubbish if you don’t use it. 
Jane Who says I won’t use it?
Emma (Glancing back at Jane). You do realise, Jane, dear, that you’re locked up in this prison for 
the rest of your life?
Jane That’s no reason for not keeping my brain agile and alert.
Emma (Seeing Mary about to enter). Look out, here she comes again. The tortoise that’s lost the 
hare! (She turns back to the painting).
Mary enters very slowly with her walking frame. During the following dialogue, she crosses to move painfully and 
slowly downstage, passing behind Emma. She then slowly crosses stage front before moving up stage, passing Jane 
and crossing to exit off just after Lewis enters.
Jane At least Mary keeps moving. The only time you detach yourself from that easel is for 
meals or at bedtime.
Emma (Facing Emma). That’s the pot calling the kettle black. It’s a wonder you don’t get square 
eyes looking at that thing all day.
Jane I’d much sooner have square eyes than be crippled like Mary.
Emma (Glancing at Mary). You wouldn’t think she held up a bank with a shotgun two years ago 
would you? Such a pity she got caught before getting her hands on the cash.
Jane It was her own fault for fastening the shotgun onto her mobility scooter. She should have 
realised the recoil from the gun would tip her scooter onto its back. (She turns back to the 
computer; now with sympathy). Poor soul, having to wait with her legs waving in the air until 
the police arrived.
Emma (Back to the painting). Did the trick though didn’t it? Saved her from going into a residential 
care home dwindling her life’s savings. Now with life imprisonment, she can live out her 
days in luxury without paying a penny.
Jane Good old Government making life plush and comfortable for the prisoners. The thought of 
living out our days roughing it in an old folks home doesn’t bear thinking about. 
Emma I haven’t seen Sandra for some time now. Where is she?
Jane She meeting with the Governor.
Emma (With a slight glance to Jane). What about?
Jane Persuading him on giving us a better television package. It’ll give a much better choice of 
programmes. 
Emma (Back to the painting). I’m all in favour of that. Do you think she’ll succeed?
Jane (Turning to Emma). Have you ever known the Queen Bee losing a battle with the Governor! 
(She turns back to the computer).
Emma That’s true. [Omit the following if prison clothing is used]. I mean look what she did so we 
women could wear our own clothes and not the prison standard issue.
Enter Lewis, carrying a newspaper. Mary exits after his entrance.
Lewis Morning girls.
Emma & Jane Morning, Lewis.
Lewis Have you heard today’s news headlines?
Jane No.
Lewis A scam has rocketed the banking world. Millions have disappeared without trace.
Emma These days of technology it can be traced, surely?
Lewis (Sitting down). Apparently not. The banks computers have been hacked into and large sums of money removed. The money has transferred so fast electronically between various 
accounts all over the world it’s left the trail stone cold. 
Jane Except for the perpetrator.
Lewis You spend hours on that thing, Jane. It’s not you is it? 
Jane (With vagueness). I wouldn’t know where to start. 
Lewis But you’re in here for money laundering.
Jane Only to be caught, sentenced and cared for in comfort so that I want for nothing till I snuff 
it.
(Enter Nurse, hurriedly, wearing a clean disposable apron, with a medicine bottle and a dessert spoon.)
Nurse Anyone seen Mary? (Pausing, waving the bottle). Doctor Jones wants her to take this three times a day to try and cure her bilious attacks. (She pulls a slight face of forgetfulness). I’ve forgotten to give this morning's dose to her. 
Lewis Just missed her, she went that way.
Nurse (Starting to rush off then stopping and sniffing). Can’t smell anything. I don’t think she’s 
dropped one yet!
Jane Dropped one what?
Nurse A back door cough. She’s worse than a horse that’s been eating radishes! I must try and 
catch up with her before her bum starts grumbling again. (She exits).
Emma I’d sooner die and have done with it than be nursed by that imbecile! 
Parker (Entering. Firmly). Lewis Weston! What are you doing here in the women’s wing again? 
This is not a hotel with the right to wander where the mood takes you.