The Audition.


Synopsis.
Lauren is like most wannabe actresses - she wants to be famous, and to be famous you have to suffer the audition process. So when she attends an audition for a 'must-have', career-building part, little does she know that the Director, Stella, has very strong views about how an audition should be conducted; about how the person auditioning should be tested and what should and should not be said. Stella is about to push Lauren to her mental, physical, emotional and ethical limits. Close to her breaking point, Lauren is subjected to alcohol, drugs and mind games as part of the audition process, all so that Stella can find out the answer to one question. How far will an actress go to get the part? This powerful new drama is hard-hitting and spiky, both suggestive and revealing; an insight into the mindsets of the examiner and the examined.


Cast
Lauren Early twenties, actress, relatively well-spoken
Stella Mid thirties, Director
Stella Do the piece upside down.
Lauren Pardon?
Stella You heard what I said.
Lauren You mean do a handstand?
Stella I mean do a handstand.
(Lauren is confused, but goes to the side of the stage and does as instructed. Then struggling she begins the monologue again.)
Lauren “Fortune smiles on, on but, but a …” (she collapses under the strain). Sorry, I can’t do a 
handstand for that long.
Stella (Pause) What are you here for Lauren?
Lauren For the audition.
Stella Yes, yes I know. OK, when did you hear about the audition?
Lauren It was in the local newspaper, it said you we’re looking for female actors and that you have one audition a day, so I rung up and booked my audition.
Stella OK. (Pause). What are you really here for?
Lauren Well, I want to act I suppose.
Stella You want to act you suppose?
Lauren Yeah.
Stella (Pause) Do you want to act, or do you want to perform.
Lauren Is there a difference?
Stella (Pause) Who are you Lauren?
Lauren I beg your pardon?
Stella What kind of person are you?
Lauren Ha, sorry I just came here for an audition, not therapy.
Stella This isn’t therapy.
Lauren Kind of feels like it. (Pause). Look, I’m sorry … what is your name?
Stella What would you like my name to be?
Lauren Erm, I don’t, I don’t know.
Lauren is confused.
Stella So who are you Lauren?
Lauren Erm, I, I don’t get asked that very often.
Stella Well, humour me.
Lauren Erm, I’m from Dublin (or large city), I study at Queens (or university in/near a city) and I … I 
like horse riding
Stella That’s what you are, not who you are
(Pause.)
Lauren I’m confused. (Pause. She notices what looks like a script on the table). Is that the script? (Pause).
Could I, could I just have a quick look at it?
Stella Knock yourself out.
Lauren goes over to the table and picking up the script, she starts to look through it.
Lauren The advert didn’t say a lot really, so … (Pause, Lauren looks confused; the script can be seen to 
have words just repeated in bold letters. Like ‘GREED, GREED, GREED’). It, it’s just full of words
Stella That’s what a script usually consists of …
Lauren No, I mean, Page 1 just has ‘confusion’ repeated throughout it, ‘frustration’ on Page 12, 
‘elation’ Page 33 and ‘greed’ on 34. No characters or dialogue, I’m confused.
Stella You won’t be.
Lauren Oh, OK
(Stella gets up from her chair for the first time, Lauren takes a step back.)
Stella Stand up straight for me Lauren (Lauren does as she is asked; Stella stands behind her and 
physically examines her). Straighter. (She pushes Lauren’s back straight). Hmm, tall, long blondish 
hair, what happened to it?
Lauren Dyed my hair, went wrong
Stella Hmm, shame. Soft hands, long legs, firm buttocks (Stella slaps her buttocks, Lauren looks 
bemused). Slim figure, good to see; such a shame to see talented performers with an arse like 
the back of a bus. But no, not here. Good to see. Let’s look at your face. (Stella feels the face 
from the side). You moisturise regularly … good bone structure, smooth skin. Quite attractive 
actually
Lauren Thank you
Stella No problem; let’s look at your eyes. (She moves in front of Lauren and looks directly at her eyes). 
Hmm, I see the faces of many men who have broken their hearts over these eyes. (Pause). 
Excellent, right, let’s get down to business. (She goes back to her seat, sits down and lights a 
3
cigarette). I’m going to be honest, you are an attractive girl, but you couldn’t even get an 
acting job on Eastenders.